---
layout: post
title: "The Song of the Iron Net and Pinecone"
---
The candlelight flickered in the air conditioning wind as the woman stretched out her arm to pull her dress away. Her shadow shook on the wall as she tilted her head in thought.

"This isn't formal enough, and I can't even take big steps in it!" With a huff of frustration, she threw it onto the bed where it cowered alongside the graduation gown. The cheaply made graduation cap fell onto the wooden floor, and the cardboard inside the black fabric was folded in half by her high heels. "I don't want to go! Why do they always celebrate life's milestones but only cry at funerals?"

No one answered. Only the candlelight flickered in response. The scent of pine wax candles wafted through the room, and the night sky outside slowly contracted like a womb filled with nitrogen.

She blew out the candle, picked up her keys, and walked out of the room. As she walked towards the abandoned construction site, she pondered why she didn't like ceremonies, why she feared the smiling faces and flowers at graduation ceremonies. Ceremonies were a luxury for survivors. She knew that beneath the brightness lay darkness and suffering, and beneath milestones lay tears of silence and dungeons filled with tiny joys. Smiling faces and flowers represented contempt for darkness, and represented using shallowness to kill empathy.

"I don't want to go, but I seem to have to..." she murmured. "I also haven't decided which dress to wear."

The empty streets were barely visible under the crescent moon obscured by cloudy shadows. In the distance, a fire was burning. Through the fence, she saw a man in worn work clothes sitting by the fire, throwing paper into the flames. The crackling sound of burning paper drowned out her footsteps. She took small steps forward, her left hand tightly gripping a folding knife in her pocket. No one died from being too cautious.

"Your dress is pretty," the man noticed her. She didn't respond or plan to leave. The man had a stack of printouts next to him, which he fed into the fire with patience. The night wind occasionally blew the papers, making a rustling sound. Cicadas chirped in the distance, creating a background noise, and the air was filled with the sound of burning debris. What made people feel safe? Luck played a big part, and she might have been caught in chains by taking one more step, or boarded a train that later overturned by missing one person. She could also die tomorrow in the most absurd way possible – but because she was lucky, she hadn't yet. Safety was also partly due to awareness. She was always vigilant and often overreacted, as if her brain had gone through every possible scenario of extreme misery before finding a moment of peace when things weren't so bad.

The iron fence separated them, and there was no door within sight. This relative separation made her slightly more relaxed, so she walked slowly but steadily forward. After a few steps, she stopped and held her breath, observing her surroundings for any abnormalities. She repeated this process after two or three minutes, taking a step forward. The man didn't turn his head, but he placed the printouts closer to the side of the fence, where they were less noticeable.

The delicate balance continued until the flames shifted too much, causing the man to lean forward and move half a meter. The movement of the two people facing the fence formed a cycle, until she was only four or five meters away from the fence and could see the dense data on the printouts.

The night sky went from dark to navy blue, then to iron grey, and the sun came in the throes of labor. The temperature dropped suddenly in the early morning, and she walked quickly to the fence for warmth. The man continued with the cycle, his movements more obvious, but he still didn't look up.

At this point, she picked up a tree branch and pushed her arm through a gap in the fence, throwing it into the fire. The man noticed and laid out the paper as a fuse to encourage the flames forward. He slowly stood up and backed away slightly to watch, as if he were lighting fireworks in his childhood. The flames licked the fence like a challenge, with the burning paper acting as a guide.

But she felt safe and peaceful. The flames were only waist-high, and she could see the man's messy hair casting a shadow over his face. She thought about the metal that was forged in fire and couldn't be melted now, but she couldn't divide this pile of flames in half. The black smoke and pungent smell were also beyond the control of the iron fence. When the flames started to die down, she ran to pick up a pine cone from a nearby tree and threw it into the fire.

At this point, the sound of a bird call came from high up in the distance, faint but audible. The sunrise had turned the eastern clouds into strange shades of gold and pink. The two people didn't talk, and silence spread through the tiny movements as the morning stretched out like a sharp sword piercing the night sky.

She lowered her head, speaking slowly and seriously, "Wait for me." Then she turned and ran. Her running generated a fearsome power, and the sparse pedestrians made way for her early on. Like the sunrise that arrived on time, only her heavy breathing could be heard in the world, forgetting the ceremony, forgetting the ugliness of the world, forgetting the curse of rules.

She picked up the bachelor's gown and returned to the fire. By this time, daylight had arrived, and the blue sky was cold and clear in the morning. The waking sun watched her movements. She saw that the fire had disappeared, and the backs of three police officers blocked the man a few dozen meters away. She didn't stop and continued running towards the fence. In the meantime, the police car doors opened and closed, like a sigh. She vaguely saw that the man's work clothes were as charred as the pine cone, and the police car drove away.

She stood in front of the fence, hanging the bachelor's gown on the fence with a tree branch and two pine cones as a simple joint to secure it. She admired this setting, like a black scarecrow, and a smile appeared on her face. The clothes hung a head taller than her, and from a distance, it might look like she was laughing with a friend.

She picked up a lighter and lit the bottom of the already black clothes. The transparent sunlight penetrated the fence, and below it, a warm flame burned like a fireplace on a cold night. The bottom was a thick accumulation of ash, and the ash didn't disgust her. It was more like the bones left behind by war, waiting to be replaced and buried by the generous earth, and then the ashes would hang on high tree branches like spirit.

The smell of the cheap fabric burning angered the crows on the tree. The crows flapped their wings and flew away, as if a part of the clothes had broken away from the fence, breaking the curse and flying towards the ancient sun.


First draft: 10 July 2023, Shanghai

Second draft: 17 July 2023, Beijing

Third draft: 21 July 2023, Shijiazhuang

Sources of inspiration:

Clothed in Smoke - Untamed Land

"The Song of the Lonely Northern Wanderer" - Gu Cheng


References:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ot3jkbmBKsc&list=PLFpe__PuFKXxukwGNa_tqlD0rD-Q8qTv3&index=1

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8DellQae18&list=PLFpe__PuFKXxukwGNa_tqlD0rD-Q8qTv3&index=2
